
# Survey on Evolutionary Deep Learning: Principles, Algorithms, Applications and Open Issues

[Abstract](https://arxiv.org/abs/2208.10658), [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2208.10658.pdf)

## Authors

- Nan Li
- Lianbo Ma
- Guo Yu
- Bing Xue
- Mengjie Zhang
- Yaochu Jin

## Abstract

Over recent years, there has been a rapid development of deep learning (DL) in both industry and academia fields. However, finding the optimal hyperparameters of a DL model often needs high computational cost and human expertise. To mitigate the above issue, evolutionary computation (EC) as a powerful heuristic search approach has shown significant merits in the automated design of DL models, so-called evolutionary deep learning (EDL). This paper aims to analyze EDL from the perspective of automated machine learning (AutoML). Specifically, we firstly illuminate EDL from machine learning and EC and regard EDL as an optimization problem. According to the DL pipeline, we systematically introduce EDL methods ranging from feature engineering, model generation, to model deployment with a new taxonomy (i.e., what and how to evolve/optimize), and focus on the discussions of solution representation and search paradigm in handling the optimization problem by EC. Finally, key applications, open issues and potentially promising lines of future research are suggested. This survey has reviewed recent developments of EDL and offers insightful guidelines for the development of EDL.

## Comments

34 pages,6 figures

## Source Code

Official Code



Community Code

- [https://paperswithcode.com/paper/survey-on-evolutionary-deep-learning](https://paperswithcode.com/paper/survey-on-evolutionary-deep-learning)

## Bibtex

```tex
@misc{li2022survey,
      title={Survey on Evolutionary Deep Learning: Principles, Algorithms, Applications and Open Issues}, 
      author={Nan Li and Lianbo Ma and Guo Yu and Bing Xue and Mengjie Zhang and Yaochu Jin},
      year={2022},
      eprint={2208.10658},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={cs.NE}
}
```

## Notes

Type your reading notes here...

